Let's look at how to actually run
the facilitated usability sessions.
Very briefly, first of all,
an outline of your schedule.
This is normally what my calendar will
look like if I'm running usability
sessions.
Each session is normally 40 minutes long.
Any more than that and
people begin to zone out and
kind of can't really concentrate.
I normally leave about 20 minutes between
each session, partly because some sessions
run a little bit long, partly because I
need time to just get my head in the game.
There might have been something that
somebody said that wanna note down or
whatever else.
And I never do more than six a day.
It is exhausting doing usability testing.
Which is why I mainly rely on
nonfacilitated usability testing
these days.
And then always split it
around lunch as well.
So you do three in the morning, three in
the afternoon, or two in the morning,
two in the afternoon,
whatever you decide to do.
If you are gonna do in person,
facilitate the testing, try and
relax people ask about their expectations.
So before you show them anything,
ask them what they expect to see, right?
So if you're say presenting
a mobile app for a bank, so
what would you expect to see in
a mobile app for a bank, right?
Before you show them anything.
Because that's interesting
in its own right.
Prompt people to talk a lot.
Try not to lead people.
Again, this is another reason why I
don't do facilitated remote testing that
much anymore cuz I can't keep my mouth
shut and I do tend to lead people.
So I'm not very good at
facilitated remote testing.
And this is another thing I've really
struggled with allow people to
struggle, right?
That when you see someone in excruciating
frustration at something you wanna
jump in and help them and
you really mustn't because you wanna see
how they struggle and where they're going.
Only a bit, you can prompt people if
they get completely stuck if they said,
I just don't know what to do next,
rather than just say, well,
that's the end of the session,
then you can help get them back on track.
Watch for nonverbal cues.
They're really big one, [LAUGH] hammering
the table is something that
I did experience once.
Well, they will ask questions
as they go through, and
normally my response is, absolutely,
that's a really good question,
I'd love to answer it, but
can I answer it at the end?
Because I don't wanna screw up
what we're doing now, right?
Or prejudiced see?
So now I'll make a note and
answer them at the end.
Feel free to ask clarifying questions,
right?
So just, why did you do that, and
don't say, why did you do that?
But asking them to clarify what
they're trying to do and why they made
a choice that they did or what they
meant by something, that kind of thing.
So that's facilitated usability testing.
What about unfacilitated?
Well, you got some options there.
They're really easy to set up,
this is being set up with loopback,
you can go in and you can select your
self test option, really simple.
You then basically go in you write
a welcome message where you say some of
those things that you would have said if
you were welcoming people in person say,
we're not testing you would
encourage you to speak out loud.
Any feedback is good feedback.
You're not gonna have offend
anybody a little bit like that,
I tend to work right in the welcome.
And then you basically go through and
write out the scenarios, right?
That you want them to do and you give
them add the URL into the prototype and
it's as simple as that.
And then you tend to
write a final message.
Thank you very much,
you're amazing, blah, blah, blah.
Once you've filled all those details in,
and notice there as well on the left hand
side, you can say whether it's desktop,
iOS, Android and things like that,
which is good for you.
At the end of that, it just gives you
a URL, you send the URL out to your users,
they jump on the URL and
then talk through the whole process.
And it records them
while they're doing it.
It transcribes them, and
then you can sit and wtch and
pick out bits do you like and
all the rest of it.
As you can see, that's a lot less work.
But it's also really good because
you get this very unbiased,
unfiltered, unprompted view.
So if you're not as confident
about doing usability testing, or
you're a bit rubbish at it like I am,
unfacilitated works better because
you're less likely to bias it, right?
Pros and cons, make your pick probably
based on the time that's available to you.